In this video, we'll cover TypeScript basics.
So what exactly is TypeScript.
Well, it's a language developed by Microsoft,
the first release of it was in 2012,
it's free and open-source.
TypeScript provides static typing support to JavaScript,
so this helps you with IDE support in terms
of code completion, debugging and so on.
TypeScript also adds support for object-oriented
programming, such as classes, objects,
inheritance, interfaces and so on.
So it really just makes it easier to use the JavaScript
ecosystem or environment in a compiled fashion.
So that's the real beauty of TypeScript.
And you can get more details on TypeScript
at the official website typescriptlang.org.
For Angular development, we can develop
using various languages.
So we can make use of JavaScript, it's the extremely
popular programming language.
You can also use ECMAScript, the standardized
version of JavaScript, you'll see references
such as ES6 and ES9 and so on.
There's also TypeScript, so it adds optional
types to JavaScript, and you can even develop
Angular apps in other languages such as Dart, and so on.
Now TypeScript is the most popular language
for Angular development and I'll talk more about that later.
So let's look at the relationships.
So TypeScript is a superset of JavaScript and ECMAScript.
So you have the core JavaScript, plain vanilla,
then you have ECMAScript, which is the standardized
version of JavaScript, and then we have TypeScript,
so this is where we add optional types
to the JavaScript programming environment.
And then you're probably wondering,
okay well, why do most developers use TypeScript,
why don't they use Dart or ECMAScript
or just plain vanilla JavaScript?
Well, TypeScript is a strongly-typed language
with compile-time checking and IDE support.
So for very large projects, this helps with increased
developer productivity and efficiency.
And also, the Angular framework itself
is internally developed using TypeScript.
Yep, that's right.
So the Angular developers, they actually used TypeScript
to build the Angular framework.
And then also, when you see a lot of docs,
online blogs, tutorials and so on,
they'll make use of TypeScript for their coding examples.
So it's a really good idea to learn TypeScript
if you're really serious about doing Angular development.
Alrighty, so in this course, I'm going to to focus
on practical results, so this is really just
an introduction to TypeScript development.
It's not an A to Z reference, if you need
a complete reference to TypeScript,
I say look at the TypeScript documentation
and that's available at typescriptlang.org,
but we'll cover enough practical information
to help us build our given applications.
Alrighty, so let's kind of look at the development process.
So the first thing we'll do is we'll create
our TypeScript code, then we'll compile the code,
and then we'll actually run the code.
And this is a step-by-step process,
but it's very high-level, this is the basic
process that you will take with any type
of compiled programming language.
Alrighty, so step one, creating the TypeScript code.
So we create a text file, our TypeScript files
will have a .ts extension, so I have
this file here called mydemo.ts,
and then here I simply say console.log("Hello World!"),
it'll simply log a message to the actual console.
And that's it, very simple, very straight forward.
And then with step two of compiling the code,
so web browsers do not understand TypeScript natively,
they can only understand JavaScript,
so we somehow need to convert our TypeScript code
over to JavaScript code.
And this is known as transpiling.
Okay, funny term there, transpiling.
So we're translating/compiling.
So we have our transcript code right, mydemo.ts,
and then we're going to convert it to JavaScript code
and we're going to transpile it to JavaScript code,
and so we'll end up with this file called mydemo.js.
So transpiling, we're translating/compiling.
Alrighty, so a bit more here, so transpiling
is accomplished with the tsc command.
So our file here, mydemo.ts, will use the tsc command
to actually transpile the code,
and this'll generate mydemo.js,
that's the actual JavaScript code.
So then our command line will simply use tsc space,
the file name, mydemo.ts,
so we give a reference to the TypeScript file,
and then it'll actually generate
the given JavaScript file, mydemo.js.
And then to actually run the code,
then we'll actually run the JavaScript code,
and we'll make use of the node command.
So we're going to run the generated JavaScript code,
and we're going to run the .js file.
So at the command line, we'll say node,
and then we'll give a reference to the JavaScript code.
So here I'll have node mydemo.js,
and this'll give us Hello World!,
because our file itself, had console.log("Hello World!).
So the important thing here is that we're running
the generated JavaScript code, the .js file.
So you may wonder, well, well why do we even compile?
Well the compiler is your friend,
so the compiler or IDE can find errors
at compilation time.
So if I were to write some code here like
console.LOGSTUFF(Hello World!"),
so I just write the code here tsc mydemo.ts,
compiling the code here, then it'll tell me
"Hey, this property LOGSTUFF does not exist
blah, blah, blah.", so this is very good,
you want to find your errors earlier,
as opposed to regular JavaScript,
where we would only find the errors at run-time.
So, again, the compiler is your friend,
help you find the errors early
to save you a lot of time and headache.
Alrighty, so these are the basics here,
we're going to move into the next video,
we'll dive into the IDE, and ah,
we'll go ahead and write our first TypeScript program.
So I'll see ya' in the next video.